README.md, before:

# Cmdlr

An extensible command line tool for subscribe online comics.



# How to Use

## Subscribe

Copy your book's url, then:

```sh
cmdlr URL [URL ...]
```

That's it!

> Hint: `cmdlr` support multiple sites. To check out what sites and urls be supported, please use `cmdlr -a` & `cmdlr -a <analyzer_name>` command.

Btw, if you want to do some pipe magic, `stdin` also work!

```sh
echo -e 'URL1 URL2 \n URL3' | cmdlr
```



## Show Subscription Status

Cmdlr provide `-l` flag to query book's URL / metadata quickly.

```sh
cmdlr -l                # List all book's name and URL.
cmdlr URL [URL ...] -l  # More detail for those books.
```



## Update Metadata

After some time pass, ours metadata may outdated.

Use the `-m` option to update it.

```sh
cmdlr -m                # update metadata for all subscriptions
cmdlr URL [URL ...] -m  # update metadata for selected books
```

> Hint: the book's metadata include info of exist volumes, book's title, authors, url, etc.



## Fetch Files

Use `-d` flag to download all not downloaded volumes.

```sh
cmdlr -d                # download all subscriptions
cmdlr URL [URL ...] -d  # only download for selected books (and subscribe new URLs)
```



Can simple combine *metadata update* and *download* phases:

```sh
cmdlr -md
cmdlr URL [URL ...] -md
```



## More Usages

Use `cmdlr -h` to see more options.



# How to Configure

After run `cmdlr` at least one time. The default configuration file will be generated in `~/.config/cmdlr/config.yaml`. It look like this:

```yaml
book_concurrent: 10
delay: 1.0
dirs:
- ~/comics
disabled_analyzers: []
extra_analyzer_dir: null
max_retry: 4
per_host_concurrent: 2
proxy: null
```



## Option: `book_concurrent` (Integer)

Define how many books can processing parallel. (default: `10`)

example:

```yaml
book_concurrent: 10
```



## Option: `dirs` (List of Strings)

All subscribed books should be placed under the `dirs` directly. (default: `['~/comics']`)

example:

```yaml
dirs:
- /home/me/comic/new
- /home/me/comic/fantasy
- /home/me/comic/scifi
```

Notice:

1. The **first item** in `dirs` is the **INCOMING DIRECTORY** - all new subscribed books will be place in here automatically.
2. For performance reason, `cmdlr` would **NOT** recursive searching sub-folders. Only books in top level will be found.



## Option: `delay` (Float)

Add a random delay interval before each download started. (default: `1.0`)

The real delay range are equal to `(0.0 ~ 1.0 random number) * delay` seconds.

example:

```yaml
delay: 2.0  # set the delay interval from 0.0 to 2.0 seconds.
```



## Option: `disabled_analyzers` (List of Strings)

Allow user to disable some analyzers. (default: `[]`)

This option is nice to use when some analyzers malfunction due to structure of site is changed. When a analyzer are disabled, all related books will not receive any further update. So user can waiting fix at ease without unsubscribe anything.

example:

```yaml
disabled_analyzers: ['example']
```



## Option: `extra_analyzer_dir` (String or Null)

All `*.py` files (or python package) in this folder will consider as analyzers. (default: `null`)

example:

```yaml
extra_analyzer_dir: '~/my_analyzers'  # `null` for disable
```

> Hint: if one analyzer in `extra_analyzer_dir` folder and has **THE SAME FILENAME** with built-in one, then, the built-in one will be **shadowed** by customized one.



## Option: `per_host_concurrent` (Integer)

Define the maximum downloading concurrent number per host. (default: `2`)

This value should be setup based on user's network capacity. If too high may cause a lot of timeout error because multiple connections sharing a little traffic for each other, so no one can finish its task in a reasonable period.

In the other hands, target website may also block user's IP when user try to make a lot of connection at the same time. So don't enlarge this option if you don't know what are you doing.

example:

```yaml
per_host_concurrent: 2
```



## Option: `max_retry` (Integer)

Define the maximum network retry for any URLs. Value `0` mean no retry. (default: `4`)

example:

```yaml
max_retry: 2
```



## Option: `proxy` (String or Null)

Assign a http proxy for all connections. (default: `null`)

example:

```yaml
proxy: http://112.227.31.19:8080  # `null` for disable
```



## Option: `customization` (Dict)

Give some key value pairs to specific analyzer.

example:

```yaml
customization:
    AN_ANALYZER_NAME:
        username: xxx
        password: xxx
        language: en
```

> Hint: not need to tweak it unless an analyzer say it want something.



# How to Install

Make sure your `python >= 3.5` and already install the `pip`, then:

```sh
pip3 install cmdlr
```



# Supported Sites

- www.comicbus.com (external dependency: [nodejs](https://nodejs.org))
- www.cartoonmad.com
- manhuagui.com (external dependency: [nodejs](https://nodejs.org))

> Feel free to send me PR to fix bug or support more sites :D



# How to Create a Custom Analyzer

Glad you asked. That's so easy!

1. Setup your `extra_analyzer_dirs` in configure file. (e.g., `~/test_analyzers`)
2. Create a `<analyzer_name>.py` file in `extra_analyzer_dirs` folder. (e.g., `~/test_analyzers/example.py`)
3. Define all **three necessary components** in this file.



Let's see what's a basic analyzer skeleton look like:

```python
"""The www.example.com analyzer."""

import re

from bs4 import BeautifulSoup


# # optional components
# session_init_kwargs = {}
# comic_req_kwargs = {}
# volume_req_kwargs = {}
#
#
# def entry_normalizer(url):
#     """Normalize all possible entry url to single one form."""
#     return url
#
#
# def get_image_extension(resp):
#     """Use response to calculate image extension."""
#     return '.jpg'


entry_patterns = []


async def get_comic_info(resp, **kwargs):
    """Find comic info from entry."""


async def save_volume_images(resp, save_image, **kwargs):
    """Get all images in one volume."""
```



Feel free copy the above code into your `<analyzer_name>.py` file (actually, the [real world template](#real-world-template) may more suitable). I will explain it later.



## Necessary Components in an Analyzer

Developer **must** define this 3 components in analyzer file:

- List of Regexes: `entry_patterns`
- Async Function: `get_comic_info(resp, *, request, loop, **kwargs)`
- Async Function: `save_volume_images(resp, save_image, *, request, loop, **kwargs)`



### List of Regexes: `entry_patterns`

A list of `re.compile()` result.

It will be used to determine a book's urls should or should not be processed by this analyzer.

example:

```python
entry_patterns = [re.compile(r'^https?://(?:www\.)?example\.com/html/')]
```



### Async Function: `get_comic_info(resp, *, request, loop, **kwargs)`

This function should return the comic's info from book's url.

- Arguments:
    - `resp` ([aiohttp.ClientResponse](http://aiohttp.readthedocs.io/en/stable/client_reference.html#response-object)): the response of comic book entry.
    - `request` (A warpper function of [aiohttp.ClientSession.request](http://aiohttp.readthedocs.io/en/stable/client_reference.html#aiohttp.ClientSession.request), with the same `**kwargs`): use this function to request more page if parsing need.
    - `loop` ([asyncio.AbstractEventLoop](https://docs.python.org/3/library/asyncio-eventloop.html?highlight=run_in_executor#asyncio.AbstractEventLoop)): event loop.
    - `**kwargs`: keep for future use.
- Returns: (dict)
    - This dict should match the pattern defined in `schema.meta_parsing`. (see below)



#### Returned Value

The returned value is look like this:

```python
return {'name': 'comic name',
        'description': 'bala bala...',
        'authors': ['David'],   # allow multiple authors
        'finished': False,      # True or False
        'volumes': {            # `valume_name` mapping to `volume_entry_url`
            'volume_name_001': 'http://comicsite.com/to/volume/entry/001'
            'volume_name_002': 'http://comicsite.com/to/volume/entry/002'
            'volume_name_003': 'http://comicsite.com/to/volume/entry/003'
        }}
```

Developer can choice any string as `volume_name`, but please follow some rules:

Requirement:

1. **unique**: single `volume_name` should mapping to a single `volume_entry_url`, one by one.

Try to do your best:

2. **stable**: the `volume_name` - `volume_entry_url` mapping not changed as usually.
3. **human readable**
4. **sortable**



#### Extract the HTML

```python
async def get_comic_info(resp, **kwargs):
    html = await resp.text()

    # # or manual decode
    # binary = await resp.read()
    # html = binary.decode('big5', errors='ignore')
```

That's it.

> See: [aiohttp.ClientResponse](http://aiohttp.readthedocs.io/en/stable/client_reference.html#response-object) for more detail.



#### Parse the HTML

I recommend using `BeautifulSoup` to parsing data. like this...

```python
    # `html` already exists

    soup = BeautifulSoup(html, 'lxml')
    name = soup.find('span', id='comic-name').string  # get comic-name
```

but `re` (regex) module are also useful.

> See: [BeautifulSoup](https://www.crummy.com/software/BeautifulSoup/bs4/doc/) and [re](https://docs.python.org/3/library/re.html) for more detail.



#### Request More Pages

Sometimes, not all of necessary information in single page. Developer need to travel through more than one page to collect all infomation.

We can use the `request` function to get everything we want.

```python
async def get_comic_info(resp, request, **kwargs):
    # ...

    # we need some data in `url2`.
    async with request(url=url2) as resp2:
        html2 = await resp2.text()

    # do anything you want with `html2`
```

> See: [aiohttp.ClientSession.request](http://aiohttp.readthedocs.io/en/stable/client_reference.html#aiohttp.ClientSession.request) for more detail.



### Async Function: `save_volume_images(resp, save_image, *, request, loop, **kwargs)`

This function should doing the following things in single volume.

1. find all image's *url* &  *page number*.
2. run `save_image()` for each images.

---

- Arguments:
    - `resp` ([aiohttp.ClientResponse](http://aiohttp.readthedocs.io/en/stable/client_reference.html#response-object)): the response of current volume's url.
    - `save_image` (callable): see below.
    - `request` (A warpper function of [aiohttp.ClientSession.request](http://aiohttp.readthedocs.io/en/stable/client_reference.html#aiohttp.ClientSession.request), with the same `**kwargs`): use this function to request more page if parsing need.
    - `loop` ([asyncio.AbstractEventLoop](https://docs.python.org/3/library/asyncio-eventloop.html?highlight=run_in_executor#asyncio.AbstractEventLoop)): event loop.
    - `**kwargs`: keep for future use.
- Returns: Not used.



#### Function: `save_image(page_num, *, url, **request_kwargs)`

Developer should run `save_image(...)` function for **EACH** images in this volume before `save_volume_images()` finished.

The `page_num` is page number like `1`, `2`, `50` (not string) to determine the order of images. and the `url` is the image's url.

example:

```python
async def save_volume_images(resp, save_image, **kwargs):
    # ... skip parsing

    # `img_urls`: is a list and already parsing from volume's html
    #             and sorted by page.
    for idx, img_url in enumerate(img_urls):
        save_image(page_num=idx + 1, url=img_url)
```

If developer need to do more settings (e.g., headers) to request image binary, just use the `**request_kwargs`. Those keyword arguments will transfer to [aiohttp.ClientSession.request](http://aiohttp.readthedocs.io/en/stable/client_reference.html#aiohttp.ClientSession.request) interface.



## Optional Components

Developer can define the following things if need:

- Dict: `session_init_kwargs`
    - kwargs for `aiohttp.ClientSession` initialize.
- Dict: `comic_req_kwargs`
    - the `kwargs` (without url) in `request(**kwargs)` to get `resp` in `get_comic_info(resp, ...)`.
- Dict: `volume_req_kwargs`
    - the `kwargs` (without url) in `request(**kwargs)` to get `resp` in `save_volume_images(resp, ...)`.
- Function: `get_image_extension(resp)`
    - see below.
- Function: `entry_normalizer(url)`
    - see below.



### Function: `get_image_extension(resp)`

This function can use the `resp` of image to determine the image file extension. (e.g., `.jpg`, `.png`)

By default, `cmdlr` will using `Content-Type` to calculate it. If you want to do some customize, here is an example:

```python
def get_image_extension(resp):
    """Always use .jpg format."""
    return '.jpg'
```



### Function: `entry_normalizer(url)`

Developer can use this function to make sure multiple **semantic equivalence** url can mapping to a single one form. Let's see an example:

```
1. http://example.com/book/123
2. https://example.com/book/123
3. https://www.example.com/book/123
4. https://example.com/book/123.html
```

Assume those urls point to the same book. User may input `form 1`, sometime `form 2`, and the url in metadata file is `form 4`. In this situation, user may troubled because they can't select exists book "correctly".

If analyzer has an `entry_normalizer()`, all internal url operations will base on the **normalized form**. Problem solved.

Here is a example to show how to write a normalizer:

```python
entry_patterns = [
        re.compile(r'^http://(?:www.)?example.com/book/(\d+)(?:\.html)?$'),  # (\d+) is the book id
        ]


def entry_normalizer(url):
    """Normalize all possible entry url to single one form."""
    match = entry_patterns[0].search(url)
    id = match.group(1)
    return 'http://example.com/book/{}.html'.format(id)
```



## Real World Template

Previous template is good for describe ours concept, but this one may easier to use in real world.

Please check out all `TODO` tag in following template and rewrite them. I think it can cover most of the cases.

Your first step is setup the `entry_patterns`, then use `cmdlr -md <entry_url>` to test it. Go now `(/^o^)/`

```python
"""The www.example.com analyzer.

Write anything here which you want user to know.
User can use `cmdlr -a <analyzer_name>` to read the message in here.
Here is some examples. But no specific format required.

# Entry example

- http://www.example.com/book/1234/
- http://www.example.com/book/1234.html
- http://example.com/book/1234.html



# Maintainer

Your Name <xxx@mail.bigcompany.com>
"""

import re
import urllib.parse as UP

from bs4 import BeautifulSoup


def _get_soup(binary):
    html = binary.decode('utf8', errors='ignore')  # TODO: change the codec?
    return BeautifulSoup(html, 'lxml')


def _get_name(soup):
    # TODO: here is a example
    return soup.title.string.split(' - ')[0]


def _get_description(soup):
    pass  # TODO


def _get_authors(soup):
    pass  # TODO


def _get_finished(soup):
    pass  # TODO


def _get_volumes(soup, baseurl):
    # use UP.urljoin(baseurl, vol_url) to calculate "absolute" volume url
    pass  # TODO


entry_patterns = [
        # TODO: here is a example
        # re.compile(r'^http://www.example.com/book/(\d+)(?:\.html)?$'),
        ]


async def get_comic_info(resp, **kwargs):
    """Find comic info from entry."""
    soup = _get_soup(await resp.read())
    return {'name': _get_name(soup),
            'description': _get_description(soup),
            'authors': _get_authors(soup),
            'finished': _get_finished(soup),
            'volumes': _get_volumes(soup, str(resp.url))}


async def save_volume_images(resp, save_image, **kwargs):
    """Get all images in one volume."""
    soup = _get_soup(await resp.read())

    # TODO: should extract all image_url and page_number from `soup`
    #       and save in `image_data`...

    for image_url, page_num in image_data:
        save_image(page_num, url=image_url)
```



## Advanced Skills

Those skills may rough or require external dependency. And you don't need it as usually.



### Get Configuration from User

Developer can get some user setted data for your analyzer. Like this one:

```python
import cmdlr.config as config  # import cmdlr related module

# from .. import config        # Hint: your analyzer fullname is:
                               #   "cmdlr.analyzers.<analyzername>"
                               # so relative import like here are also work.

import cmdlr.exceptions as exceptions


def _get_username_password():
    analyzer_name = 'example'
    settings = config.get_customization(analyzer_name)  # here is the magic

    username = settings.get('username')
    password = settings.get('password')

    if not username or not password:
        raise exceptions.AnalyzerRuntimeError(
            'please setup your username and password in config.yaml. e.g.,\n'
            '\n'
            'customization:\n'
            '  example:\n'          # "example" is the name of analyzer
            '    username: name\n'
            '    password: pass\n'
            )

    return username, password


async def get_comic_info(resp, **kwargs):
    username, password = _get_username_password()  # raise error only when
                                                   # user using this analyzer
    # ... do anything you want
```



### Move Some Functions to Other Threads / Processes

Use `loop` to dispatch blocking operations to other threads. Here is an example:

```python
# Notice: Not recommended because too heavy. Only for example.
# "selenium" and "PhantomJS" already installed in this system.

from selenium import webdriver

async def get_comic_info(resp, loop, **kwargs):
    browser = webdriver.PhantomJS()
    await loop.run_in_executor(None, lambda: browser.get(str(resp.url)))
    html = browser.page_source
    # continue parsing...
```

> See: [loop.run_in_executor](https://docs.python.org/3/library/asyncio-eventloop.html?highlight=run_in_executor#asyncio.AbstractEventLoop.run_in_executor) for more detail.

But be careful, direct access the `loop` may make concurrent number over the `max_concurrent` limit.



### Dispatch Javascript Fragment to External JS Runtime

```python
# "nodejs" already installed.

import execjs

val = execjs.eval('function(){ return 1 + 2 }()')  # val == 3
```

> See: [pyexecjs](https://github.com/doloopwhile/PyExecJS) project for more detail.

Commit message:

change: book_concurrent -> max_concurrent
add back max_concurrent to control global concurrent ability.

README.md, after:

# Cmdlr

An extensible command line tool for subscribe online comics.



# How to Use

## Subscribe

Copy your book's url, then:

```sh
cmdlr URL [URL ...]
```

That's it!

> Hint: `cmdlr` support multiple sites. To check out what sites and urls be supported, please use `cmdlr -a` & `cmdlr -a <analyzer_name>` command.

Btw, if you want to do some pipe magic, `stdin` also work!

```sh
echo -e 'URL1 URL2 \n URL3' | cmdlr
```



## Show Subscription Status

Cmdlr provide `-l` flag to query book's URL / metadata quickly.

```sh
cmdlr -l                # List all book's name and URL.
cmdlr URL [URL ...] -l  # More detail for those books.
```



## Update Metadata

After some time pass, ours metadata may outdated.

Use the `-m` option to update it.

```sh
cmdlr -m                # update metadata for all subscriptions
cmdlr URL [URL ...] -m  # update metadata for selected books
```

> Hint: the book's metadata include info of exist volumes, book's title, authors, url, etc.



## Fetch Files

Use `-d` flag to download all not downloaded volumes.

```sh
cmdlr -d                # download all subscriptions
cmdlr URL [URL ...] -d  # only download for selected books (and subscribe new URLs)
```



Can simple combine *metadata update* and *download* phases:

```sh
cmdlr -md
cmdlr URL [URL ...] -md
```



## More Usages

Use `cmdlr -h` to see more options.



# How to Configure

After run `cmdlr` at least one time. The default configuration file will be generated in `~/.config/cmdlr/config.yaml`. It look like this:

```yaml
book_concurrent: 10
delay: 1.0
dirs:
- ~/comics
disabled_analyzers: []
extra_analyzer_dir: null
max_retry: 4
per_host_concurrent: 2
proxy: null
```



## Option: `dirs` (List of Strings)

All subscribed books should be placed under the `dirs` directly. (default: `['~/comics']`)

example:

```yaml
dirs:
- /home/me/comic/new
- /home/me/comic/fantasy
- /home/me/comic/scifi
```

Notice:

1. The **first item** in `dirs` is the **INCOMING DIRECTORY** - all new subscribed books will be place in here automatically.
2. For performance reason, `cmdlr` would **NOT** recursive searching sub-folders. Only books in top level will be found.



## Option: `delay` (Float)

Add a random delay interval before each download started. (default: `1.0`)

The real delay range are equal to `(0.0 ~ 1.0 random number) * delay` seconds.

example:

```yaml
delay: 2.0  # set the delay interval from 0.0 to 2.0 seconds.
```



## Option: `disabled_analyzers` (List of Strings)

Allow user to disable some analyzers. (default: `[]`)

This option is nice to use when some analyzers malfunction due to structure of site is changed. When a analyzer are disabled, all related books will not receive any further update. So user can waiting fix at ease without unsubscribe anything.

example:

```yaml
disabled_analyzers: ['example']
```



## Option: `extra_analyzer_dir` (String or Null)

All `*.py` files (or python package) in this folder will consider as analyzers. (default: `null`)

example:

```yaml
extra_analyzer_dir: '~/my_analyzers'  # `null` for disable
```

> Hint: if one analyzer in `extra_analyzer_dir` folder and has **THE SAME FILENAME** with built-in one, then, the built-in one will be **shadowed** by customized one.



## Option: `per_host_concurrent` (Integer)

Define the maximum downloading concurrent number per host. (default: `2`)

Target website may block user's IP when user try to make too many connections at the same time. So don't enlarge this option if you don't know what are you doing.

example:

```yaml
per_host_concurrent: 2
```



## Option: `max_concurrent` (Integer)

Define the maximum global downloading concurrent number. And also be used to define how many books can processing parallel. (default: `10`)

This value should be setup based on user's network capacity. If too high may cause a lot of timeout error because multiple connections sharing a little traffic for each other, so no one can finish its task in a reasonable period.

example:

```yaml
max_concurrent: 10
```



## Option: `max_retry` (Integer)

Define the maximum network retry for any URLs. Value `0` mean no retry. (default: `4`)

example:

```yaml
max_retry: 2
```



## Option: `proxy` (String or Null)

Assign a http proxy for all connections. (default: `null`)

example:

```yaml
proxy: http://112.227.31.19:8080  # `null` for disable
```



## Option: `customization` (Dict)

Give some key value pairs to specific analyzer.

example:

```yaml
customization:
    AN_ANALYZER_NAME:
        username: xxx
        password: xxx
        language: en
```

> Hint: not need to tweak it unless an analyzer say it want something.



# How to Install

Make sure your `python >= 3.5` and already install the `pip`, then:

```sh
pip3 install cmdlr
```



# Supported Sites

- www.comicbus.com (external dependency: [nodejs](https://nodejs.org))
- www.cartoonmad.com
- manhuagui.com (external dependency: [nodejs](https://nodejs.org))

> Feel free to send me PR to fix bug or support more sites :D



# How to Create a Custom Analyzer

Glad you asked. That's so easy!

1. Setup your `extra_analyzer_dirs` in configure file. (e.g., `~/test_analyzers`)
2. Create a `<analyzer_name>.py` file in `extra_analyzer_dirs` folder. (e.g., `~/test_analyzers/example.py`)
3. Define all **three necessary components** in this file.



Let's see what's a basic analyzer skeleton look like:

```python
"""The www.example.com analyzer."""

import re

from bs4 import BeautifulSoup


# # optional components
# session_init_kwargs = {}
# comic_req_kwargs = {}
# volume_req_kwargs = {}
#
#
# def entry_normalizer(url):
#     """Normalize all possible entry url to single one form."""
#     return url
#
#
# def get_image_extension(resp):
#     """Use response to calculate image extension."""
#     return '.jpg'


entry_patterns = []


async def get_comic_info(resp, **kwargs):
    """Find comic info from entry."""


async def save_volume_images(resp, save_image, **kwargs):
    """Get all images in one volume."""
```



Feel free copy the above code into your `<analyzer_name>.py` file (actually, the [real world template](#real-world-template) may more suitable). I will explain it later.



## Necessary Components in an Analyzer

Developer **must** define this 3 components in analyzer file:

- List of Regexes: `entry_patterns`
- Async Function: `get_comic_info(resp, *, request, loop, **kwargs)`
- Async Function: `save_volume_images(resp, save_image, *, request, loop, **kwargs)`



### List of Regexes: `entry_patterns`

A list of `re.compile()` result.

It will be used to determine a book's urls should or should not be processed by this analyzer.

example:

```python
entry_patterns = [re.compile(r'^https?://(?:www\.)?example\.com/html/')]
```



### Async Function: `get_comic_info(resp, *, request, loop, **kwargs)`

This function should return the comic's info from book's url.

- Arguments:
    - `resp` ([aiohttp.ClientResponse](http://aiohttp.readthedocs.io/en/stable/client_reference.html#response-object)): the response of comic book entry.
    - `request` (A warpper function of [aiohttp.ClientSession.request](http://aiohttp.readthedocs.io/en/stable/client_reference.html#aiohttp.ClientSession.request), with the same `**kwargs`): use this function to request more page if parsing need.
    - `loop` ([asyncio.AbstractEventLoop](https://docs.python.org/3/library/asyncio-eventloop.html?highlight=run_in_executor#asyncio.AbstractEventLoop)): event loop.
    - `**kwargs`: keep for future use.
- Returns: (dict)
    - This dict should match the pattern defined in `schema.meta_parsing`. (see below)



#### Returned Value

The returned value is look like this:

```python
return {'name': 'comic name',
        'description': 'bala bala...',
        'authors': ['David'],   # allow multiple authors
        'finished': False,      # True or False
        'volumes': {            # `valume_name` mapping to `volume_entry_url`
            'volume_name_001': 'http://comicsite.com/to/volume/entry/001'
            'volume_name_002': 'http://comicsite.com/to/volume/entry/002'
            'volume_name_003': 'http://comicsite.com/to/volume/entry/003'
        }}
```

Developer can choice any string as `volume_name`, but please follow some rules:

Requirement:

1. **unique**: single `volume_name` should mapping to a single `volume_entry_url`, one by one.

Try to do your best:

2. **stable**: the `volume_name` - `volume_entry_url` mapping not changed as usually.
3. **human readable**
4. **sortable**



#### Extract the HTML

```python
async def get_comic_info(resp, **kwargs):
    html = await resp.text()

    # # or manual decode
    # binary = await resp.read()
    # html = binary.decode('big5', errors='ignore')
```

That's it.

> See: [aiohttp.ClientResponse](http://aiohttp.readthedocs.io/en/stable/client_reference.html#response-object) for more detail.



#### Parse the HTML

I recommend using `BeautifulSoup` to parsing data. like this...

```python
    # `html` already exists

    soup = BeautifulSoup(html, 'lxml')
    name = soup.find('span', id='comic-name').string  # get comic-name
```

but `re` (regex) module are also useful.

> See: [BeautifulSoup](https://www.crummy.com/software/BeautifulSoup/bs4/doc/) and [re](https://docs.python.org/3/library/re.html) for more detail.



#### Request More Pages

Sometimes, not all of necessary information in single page. Developer need to travel through more than one page to collect all infomation.

We can use the `request` function to get everything we want.

```python
async def get_comic_info(resp, request, **kwargs):
    # ...

    # we need some data in `url2`.
    async with request(url=url2) as resp2:
        html2 = await resp2.text()

    # do anything you want with `html2`
```

> See: [aiohttp.ClientSession.request](http://aiohttp.readthedocs.io/en/stable/client_reference.html#aiohttp.ClientSession.request) for more detail.



### Async Function: `save_volume_images(resp, save_image, *, request, loop, **kwargs)`

This function should doing the following things in single volume.

1. find all image's *url* &  *page number*.
2. run `save_image()` for each images.

---

- Arguments:
    - `resp` ([aiohttp.ClientResponse](http://aiohttp.readthedocs.io/en/stable/client_reference.html#response-object)): the response of current volume's url.
    - `save_image` (callable): see below.
    - `request` (A warpper function of [aiohttp.ClientSession.request](http://aiohttp.readthedocs.io/en/stable/client_reference.html#aiohttp.ClientSession.request), with the same `**kwargs`): use this function to request more page if parsing need.
    - `loop` ([asyncio.AbstractEventLoop](https://docs.python.org/3/library/asyncio-eventloop.html?highlight=run_in_executor#asyncio.AbstractEventLoop)): event loop.
    - `**kwargs`: keep for future use.
- Returns: Not used.



#### Function: `save_image(page_num, *, url, **request_kwargs)`

Developer should run `save_image(...)` function for **EACH** images in this volume before `save_volume_images()` finished.

The `page_num` is page number like `1`, `2`, `50` (not string) to determine the order of images. and the `url` is the image's url.

example:

```python
async def save_volume_images(resp, save_image, **kwargs):
    # ... skip parsing

    # `img_urls`: is a list and already parsing from volume's html
    #             and sorted by page.
    for idx, img_url in enumerate(img_urls):
        save_image(page_num=idx + 1, url=img_url)
```

If developer need to do more settings (e.g., headers) to request image binary, just use the `**request_kwargs`. Those keyword arguments will transfer to [aiohttp.ClientSession.request](http://aiohttp.readthedocs.io/en/stable/client_reference.html#aiohttp.ClientSession.request) interface.



## Optional Components

Developer can define the following things if need:

- Dict: `session_init_kwargs`
    - kwargs for `aiohttp.ClientSession` initialize.
- Dict: `comic_req_kwargs`
    - the `kwargs` (without url) in `request(**kwargs)` to get `resp` in `get_comic_info(resp, ...)`.
- Dict: `volume_req_kwargs`
    - the `kwargs` (without url) in `request(**kwargs)` to get `resp` in `save_volume_images(resp, ...)`.
- Function: `get_image_extension(resp)`
    - see below.
- Function: `entry_normalizer(url)`
    - see below.



### Function: `get_image_extension(resp)`

This function can use the `resp` of image to determine the image file extension. (e.g., `.jpg`, `.png`)

By default, `cmdlr` will using `Content-Type` to calculate it. If you want to do some customize, here is an example:

```python
def get_image_extension(resp):
    """Always use .jpg format."""
    return '.jpg'
```



### Function: `entry_normalizer(url)`

Developer can use this function to make sure multiple **semantic equivalence** url can mapping to a single one form. Let's see an example:

```
1. http://example.com/book/123
2. https://example.com/book/123
3. https://www.example.com/book/123
4. https://example.com/book/123.html
```

Assume those urls point to the same book. User may input `form 1`, sometime `form 2`, and the url in metadata file is `form 4`. In this situation, user may troubled because they can't select exists book "correctly".

If analyzer has an `entry_normalizer()`, all internal url operations will base on the **normalized form**. Problem solved.

Here is a example to show how to write a normalizer:

```python
entry_patterns = [
        re.compile(r'^http://(?:www.)?example.com/book/(\d+)(?:\.html)?$'),  # (\d+) is the book id
        ]


def entry_normalizer(url):
    """Normalize all possible entry url to single one form."""
    match = entry_patterns[0].search(url)
    id = match.group(1)
    return 'http://example.com/book/{}.html'.format(id)
```



## Real World Template

Previous template is good for describe ours concept, but this one may easier to use in real world.

Please check out all `TODO` tag in following template and rewrite them. I think it can cover most of the cases.

Your first step is setup the `entry_patterns`, then use `cmdlr -md <entry_url>` to test it. Go now `(/^o^)/`

```python
"""The www.example.com analyzer.

Write anything here which you want user to know.
User can use `cmdlr -a <analyzer_name>` to read the message in here.
Here is some examples. But no specific format required.

# Entry example

- http://www.example.com/book/1234/
- http://www.example.com/book/1234.html
- http://example.com/book/1234.html



# Maintainer

Your Name <xxx@mail.bigcompany.com>
"""

import re
import urllib.parse as UP

from bs4 import BeautifulSoup


def _get_soup(binary):
    html = binary.decode('utf8', errors='ignore')  # TODO: change the codec?
    return BeautifulSoup(html, 'lxml')


def _get_name(soup):
    # TODO: here is a example
    return soup.title.string.split(' - ')[0]


def _get_description(soup):
    pass  # TODO


def _get_authors(soup):
    pass  # TODO


def _get_finished(soup):
    pass  # TODO


def _get_volumes(soup, baseurl):
    # use UP.urljoin(baseurl, vol_url) to calculate "absolute" volume url
    pass  # TODO


entry_patterns = [
        # TODO: here is a example
        # re.compile(r'^http://www.example.com/book/(\d+)(?:\.html)?$'),
        ]


async def get_comic_info(resp, **kwargs):
    """Find comic info from entry."""
    soup = _get_soup(await resp.read())
    return {'name': _get_name(soup),
            'description': _get_description(soup),
            'authors': _get_authors(soup),
            'finished': _get_finished(soup),
            'volumes': _get_volumes(soup, str(resp.url))}


async def save_volume_images(resp, save_image, **kwargs):
    """Get all images in one volume."""
    soup = _get_soup(await resp.read())

    # TODO: should extract all image_url and page_number from `soup`
    #       and save in `image_data`...

    for image_url, page_num in image_data:
        save_image(page_num, url=image_url)
```



## Advanced Skills

Those skills may rough or require external dependency. And you don't need it as usually.



### Get Configuration from User

Developer can get some user setted data for your analyzer. Like this one:

```python
import cmdlr.config as config  # import cmdlr related module

# from .. import config        # Hint: your analyzer fullname is:
                               #   "cmdlr.analyzers.<analyzername>"
                               # so relative import like here are also work.

import cmdlr.exceptions as exceptions


def _get_username_password():
    analyzer_name = 'example'
    settings = config.get_customization(analyzer_name)  # here is the magic

    username = settings.get('username')
    password = settings.get('password')

    if not username or not password:
        raise exceptions.AnalyzerRuntimeError(
            'please setup your username and password in config.yaml. e.g.,\n'
            '\n'
            'customization:\n'
            '  example:\n'          # "example" is the name of analyzer
            '    username: name\n'
            '    password: pass\n'
            )

    return username, password


async def get_comic_info(resp, **kwargs):
    username, password = _get_username_password()  # raise error only when
                                                   # user using this analyzer
    # ... do anything you want
```



### Move Some Functions to Other Threads / Processes

Use `loop` to dispatch blocking operations to other threads. Here is an example:

```python
# Notice: Not recommended because too heavy. Only for example.
# "selenium" and "PhantomJS" already installed in this system.

from selenium import webdriver

async def get_comic_info(resp, loop, **kwargs):
    browser = webdriver.PhantomJS()
    await loop.run_in_executor(None, lambda: browser.get(str(resp.url)))
    html = browser.page_source
    # continue parsing...
```

> See: [loop.run_in_executor](https://docs.python.org/3/library/asyncio-eventloop.html?highlight=run_in_executor#asyncio.AbstractEventLoop.run_in_executor) for more detail.

But be careful, direct access the `loop` may make concurrent number over the `max_concurrent` limit.



### Dispatch Javascript Fragment to External JS Runtime

```python
# "nodejs" already installed.

import execjs

val = execjs.eval('function(){ return 1 + 2 }()')  # val == 3
```

> See: [pyexecjs](https://github.com/doloopwhile/PyExecJS) project for more detail.
